ORN Concept Documentation (#3290)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/role-assignment/index.md

* A principal: Either a Group or a User - known as a Member of the Binding
* A Resource Set: Identified by its `id`

### Resource Sets

A Resource Set is simply a collection of resources. There are two types of resource identifiers, resources can either be identified by Okta Resource Names (ORN) or by a REST URL format.

#### Okta Resource Name (ORN)

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

> Okta Resource Names (ORN) is the primary resource identifier. ORNs uniquely identify Okta resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary resource identifier is the Okta Resource Name (ORN). ORNs uniquely identify Okta resources.
```

##### ORN format

ORN identifiers are in the following format:

`orn:${partition}:${service}:${tenantId}:${objectType}:${objectId}`

###### partition

> The partition is specific to your Okta environment. The following are the supported partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The partition is specific to your Okta environment. The following are the supported partitions:
```

| Partition               |  ORN partition value  |
| ----------------------- | --------------------- |

> | Preview environments    | oktapreview           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Preview environments    | `oktapreview`          |
```

> | Production environments | okta                  | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Production environments | `okta`                  | 
```

###### service

  The service that the resource belongs to. Each resource belongs to only one service.

>   The following are the supported services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The following are the supported services:
```

| Service           |  ORN service value    |
| ----------------- | --------------------- |

> | Directory         | directory             | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Directory         | `directory`             | 
```

> | Identity Provider | idp                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Identity Provider | `idp`                   |
```

###### tenantId

The identifier for the tenant that is using the service. This is typically your [org ID](/docs/reference/api/org/#org-setting-properties).

###### objectType

> The object type that is specific to the service. For example, object types `groups` or `users` are used for the `directory` service. To see examples of object types see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The object type that is specific to the service. For example, object types `groups` or `users` are used for the `directory` service. For examples of object types, see
```

> [Supported Resources](#supported-rest-url-resources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Supported resources](#supported-resources).
```
Trying to match the updated heading later on.

###### objectId

> The object's identifier. To see examples of objectIds see [Supported Resources](#supported-rest-url-resources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The object's identifier. For examples of object identifiers, see [Supported resources](#supported-resources).
```
Updated the anchor link to match the updated heading later on.

###### contained_resources

> `contained_resources` is an ORN property that indicates to target all resources within the container resource. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`contained_resources` is an ORN property that indicates to target all resources within the container resource. For example:
```

`orn:okta:directory:${yourOrgId}:groups:123:contained_resources`

Group 123 is the example container resource. Since `:contained_resources` is specified, the resource includes the users in the group, rather than the group itself.

> Not all resources support this property, see [Supported Resources](#supported-rest-url-resources) for container resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all resources support this property, see [Supported resources](#supported-resources) for container resources.
```

#### REST URL

If the resource has a corresponding Okta API, you can specify the resource by their REST URL. Use the [ORN format](#orn-format) to specify resources that don't have corresponding Okta APIs.

> #### Supported REST URL resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Supported resources
```
Sorry, I think there used to be a table with just REST URLs here. There's both ORN and REST resources in the table below, so is it ok if I remove "REST URL" from the title?

The following are the supported resources.

> | Service                 | Resource                                                            |  ORN Identifier  <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                                 | REST URL                                                                                                                                                |

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66331496/166056997-46e7b70b-d236-4962-8781-944cecfd6d1b.png)

| :---------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------ | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Directory               | All Users                                                           | `orn:okta:directory:${yourOrgId}:users`                                       | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/users`](/docs/reference/api/users/#list-users)                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: `okta` -> `${partition}`

### Resource sets

A Resource Set is simply a collection of resources. There are two types of resource identifiers, resources can either be identified by Okta Resource Names (ORN) or by a REST URL format.

#### Okta Resource Name (ORN)

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

Okta Resource Names (ORN) is the primary resource identifier. ORNs uniquely identify Okta resources. Currently ORNs are available in early access.

##### ORN Format

ORNs generally follow a format, however each type of resource have their own specific format.

> `orn:okta:service:service-specific-id`

Reviewer 3: I gave similar feedback to Vasi on this doc: https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/eng/pages/2514163154/ORNs+in+public+APIs, that while theoretically this may be the case for the format, 99% of ORNs customer encounter will be of the form: orn:{partition}:{service}:{tenantId}:{objectType}:{objectId}
We should be consistent with that and introduce them as qualified to a tenantId/orgId from the start to make it easier for customers/reader to see the pattern and generalize.

###### service

  The service in which the resource belongs to. Each resource only belongs to one resource.
  The following are the supported services.

| Service           |  ORN service value    |
| ----------------- | --------------------- |
| Directory         | directory             | 
| Identity Provider | idp                   |

###### service-specific-id

Each service have their own specific format to specific a resource. For example,

> `orn:okta:directory:${yourOrgId}:groups:${groupId}:contained_resources`

Reviewer 3: if this is the example to teach people about a specific service id, I would not include the special case of 'contained_resource' which you don't talk about until the next section.

Author: Removed

The service specific id is `${yourOrgId}:groups:${groupId}:contained_resources`. This part of the ORN is specifying

> users in a specific group in a org.

Reviewer 3: same comment on how you describe this, it is sort of mixed with the next section.

Author: Removed

### Resource sets

A Resource Set is simply a collection of resources. There are two types of resource identifiers, resources can either be identified by Okta Resource Names (ORN) or by a REST URL format.

#### Okta Resource Name (ORN)

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

> Okta Resource Names (ORN) is the primary resource identifier. ORNs uniquely identify Okta resources. Currently ORNs are available in early access.

Reviewer 2: typically in API docs we use the ea tag in the sections that are early-access

Author: Okta Resource Name - ORN, ORNs - Okta Resource Names

##### ORN Format

> ORNs generally follow a format, however each type of resource have their own specific format.

Reviewer 2: not sure if ", however each type of resource have their own specific format." adds anything of value to the message

`orn:${partition}:${service}:${tenantId}:${objectType}:${objectId}`

###### partition

The partition is specific to your Okta environment. The following are the supported partitions.

| Partition               |  ORN partition value  |
| ----------------------- | --------------------- |
| Preview environment     | oktapreview           |

> | Every other environment | okta                  | 

Reviewer 2: Production environments?

###### service

  The service in which the resource belongs to. Each resource only belongs to one service.
  The following are the supported services.

| Service           |  ORN service value    |
| ----------------- | --------------------- |
| Directory         | directory             | 

> | Identity Provider | idp                   |

Reviewer 2: We should list all services we support today, tagging those behind EA with EA tag. We should also mention resource type (objectType) supported by each service in a separate column

###### tenantId

Tenant Id will be the tenant that is using the service, which currently is just your [org's id](/docs/reference/api/org/#get-org-settings).

###### objectType

> Object type is specific to the service, for example we have object types `groups` and `users` for the `directory` service.

Reviewer 2: we need full list of object types, one column object type, one column service

> Object type is specific to the service, for example we have object types `groups` and `users` for the `directory` service.

Author: Yes list of object types per service.

###### objectId

> The object's identifier.

Reviewer 2: again here need a detailed table, with examples and explanations of the id used for each objecttype

###### contained_resources

> `contained_resources` is an ORN specific segment which targets all of the resources in the container resource. For example,

Reviewer 2: we have to be specific, essentially saying which are the object types this applies: "Currently `contained_resources` can be used with the following object types:

> `contained_resources` is an ORN specific segment which targets all of the resources in the container resource. For example,

Author: `contained_resources` called property is good. Yeah it means those resources are included in the resource set.

`orn:okta:directory:${yourOrgId}:groups:123:contained_resources`

> Group 123 is the example container resource, since `:contained_resources` is used we are targeting the users in the group, rather than the group itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Group 123 is the example container resource. Since `:contained_resources` is specified, the resource includes the users in the group, rather than the group itself.
```

#### REST URL

> If the resource has a corresponding Okta API you can specify a resource by their REST URL as well. Not all resources will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the resource has a corresponding Okta API, you can specify the resource by their REST URL. Use the [ORN format](#orn-format) to specify resources that don't have corresponding Okta APIs.
```

have a corresponding Okta API, we recommend using ORNs for such resources.

> #### Supported Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Supported REST URL resources
```

The following are the supported resources.

> <table>

Reviewer 2: can we use markdown tables? I'm not sure whether html tables will behave as nice as md tables once published

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td />
    <td>All Groups</td>
    <td><a href="/docs/reference/api/groups/#list-groups">https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td />
    <td>A specific Group</td>
    <td><a href="/docs/reference/api/groups/#get-group">https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups/${groupId}</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td />
    <td>All Users within a specific Group</td>
    <td><a href="/docs/reference/api/groups/#list-group-members">https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups/${groupId}/users</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Identity Provider</td>
    <td>All Apps</td>
    <td><a href="/docs/reference/api/apps/#list-applications">https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td />
    <td>All Apps of a specific type</td>
    <td><a href="/docs/reference/api/apps/#list-apps-by-name">https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps/?filter=name+eq+\"${targetAppType}\"</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td />
    <td>A specific App</td>
    <td><a href="/docs/reference/api/apps/#get-application">https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps/${appId}</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

> #### Early Access Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Supported ORN resources
```

> <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

Reviewer 2: I'd consider adding both in the same table, that will clearly tell the developer where ORN can and cannot be used. Also it seems we are supporting more resources than the ones listed here? or is the plan to add those in a separate PR?

Author: This is piggy backed with the EA-self service permission/resources we're adding. Yeah the other ones they will need to be added when they're ready to actually EA.

Note - ORN identifiers are available in early access.

<table>
  <tr><td>Service</td><td>Resource</td><td>ORN Identifier</td><td>REST URL Resource Identifier</td></tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Directory</td>
    <td>All Users</td>
    <td>orn:okta:directory:${yourOrgId}:users</td>
    <td><a href="/docs/reference/api/users/#list-users">https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/users</a></td>

>   </tr>

Reviewer: Suggest to use Markdown tables for formatting:
```
| Service | Resource        | ORN   |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| `directory`  | All Users | [https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/users](/docs/reference/api/users/#list-users) |
```

### Permission types

> | Permission type                                             | Description                                                                                                                                           | Applicable resource types                    |

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66331496/166057116-514ceb55-39b3-4548-af84-d83d68cb134f.png)

| `okta.apps.read`                                            | Allows the admin to only read information about apps and their members in your Okta organization                                                     | All Apps, All apps of specific type, a specific App |
| `okta.apps.manage`                                          | Allows the admin to fully manage apps and their members in your Okta organization                                                                    | All Apps, All apps of specific type, a specific App |
| `okta.apps.assignment.manage`                               | Allows the admin to only manage assignment operations of an app in your Okta org                                                                     | All Apps, All apps of specific type, a specific App |
| `okta.profilesource.import.run`                             | Allows the admin to run imports for apps with a profile source, such as HRaaS and AD/LDAP apps. Admins with this permission can create users through the import. | All Apps, All apps of specific type, a specific App |

> | `okta.authzServers.read`      <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to read authorization servers.                                                                                                      | All authorization servers, a specific authorization server |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.authzServers.read`      <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to read authorization servers                                                                                                      | All authorization servers, a specific authorization server |
```

> | `okta.authzServers.manage`    <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to manage authorization servers.                                                                                                    | All authorization servers, a specific authorization server |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.authzServers.manage`    <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to manage authorization servers                                                                                                    | All authorization servers, a specific authorization server |
```

> | `okta.customizations.read`    <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to read customizations.                                                                                                             | All customizations |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.customizations.read`    <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to read customizations                                                                                                            | All customizations |
```

> | `okta.customizations.manage`  <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to manage customizations.                                                                                                           | All customizations |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.customizations.manage`  <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to manage customizations                                                                                                           | All customizations |
```

| `okta.apps.manage`                      | Allows the admin to fully manage apps and their members in your Okta organization                                                                    | All Apps, All apps of specific type, a specific App |
| `okta.apps.assignment.manage`           | Allows the admin to only manage assignment operations of an app in your Okta org                                                                     | All Apps, All apps of specific type, a specific App |
| `okta.profilesource.import.run`         | Allows the admin to run imports for apps with a profile source, such as HRaaS and AD/LDAP apps. Admins with this permission can create users through the import. | All Apps, All apps of specific type, a specific App |

#### Early Access Permission types

> <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

Reviewer: You can append the EA permissions to the previous permission table, and put an EA tag next to the new permissions.

| Permission type                         | Description                                                                                                                                           | Applicable resource types                    |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------- |

> | `okta.authzServers.read`                | Allows the admin to read authorization servers.                                                                                                      | All authorization servers, a specific authorization server |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.authzServers.read` <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to read authorization servers                                                                                                      | All authorization servers, a specific authorization server |
```

| `okta.authzServers.manage`              | Allows the admin to manage authorization servers.                                                                                                    | All authorization servers, a specific authorization server |
| `okta.customizations.read`              | Allows the admin to read customizations.                                                                                                             | All customizations |

> | `okta.customizations.manage`            | Allows the admin to manage customizations.                                                                                                           | All customizations |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.customizations.manage` <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | Allows the admin to manage customizations                                                                                                           | All customizations |
```
Sorry for the nit. We don't put a period for a one liner fragment, as per our style guide.
